Streaming educational industry is not a new industry, people have been using streams to gain knowledge,
but the year 2020 changed everything by transforming the whole education system from the physical classroom 
to live streaming within a short time. 

Every educational body introduced a Virtual School Model in which tutors and students come together 
via an online live streaming platform like Google Meet, zoom, Microsoft teams, and many more. 

The COVID-19 Pandemic drastically changed the way students learn concepts.
The tutors were encouraged to use online tools to effectively teach certain concepts, 

Advantages of Streaming in the education sector,
1. Dynamic Educational Content: 
    The old schooling system is based on printed books which are updated every 5 years or maybe late
    but, the content in education streaming is updated every second and has a huge collection of information 
    with new ideas and concepts to help students understand the topics better. 
    All the content of printed books is also available on online media. 

2. Multimedia Learning: "A picture is worth a thousand words"
    
    Several studies prove that at an early age, children's sensory organs are at a
    more receptor stage. So, educating them with a multimodal learning system
    at this time helps them learn better without lagging.
    
    Live streaming platforms come with many excellent features, which
    stimulate the visual and auditory senses of learners with rich multimedia
    images, tutorial videos, graphs, and so on. This, in turn, increases their
    attention span and memory retention.

3. Cultural Diversity:
    The online education system provides an opportunity to different sets of students worldwide. 
    It provides a platform for diversified cross-cultural students who come from different walks of life.
    Students can learn a lot more from each other's culture and learn to respect and embrace other customs at an
    early age.

4. Effective Interactivity: 
    Peer-to-peer learning between students through one-on-one or group chat is a key feature in the online education system.
    Some online learning management systems provide tools for online discussion & collaboration, including online community and Q&A-based forums.
    Since the millennials are quite active on social media, they can also learn through social sharing in these platforms.
   
    Interactions in real-time are always fun where students can learn and share knowledge in a seamless fashion.

    Also, knowledge sharing sessions and webinars can be conducted and recorded for future reference. 
    Chat, digital whiteboards and file sharing features help increase the productivity of the student tremendously.

