# Introduction:
1. What is Streaming?

    Earlier, the videos used to be first uploaded on the platform, and then the users could watch the uploaded video on the same platform. 
    But now, with the new emerging technologies, content creators are equipped with the option to upload the video and let the users watch simultaneously. 
    The video is recorded by the camera and at the same being uploaded to the platform so that the users/viewers can watch it in real-time.

    The concept of streaming in simple words is: The content creator records the video and the platform automatically uploads the video enabling the users to watch it at the same time when it is being uploaded.
    Technically, the online video streaming setup looks like this:

     1.  The camera captures RAW video
     2.  Video is sent to the encoder via capture card or another hookup
     3.  The encoder converts RAW video to a digital file
     4.  Video is ingested into the online video platform
     5. The video is distributed from the online video platform to the video player via a content delivery network
     6.  The video player displays the stream on the viewer’s internet-enabled device


2. The Evolution of Streaming.
    The evolution of the streaming industry took its steps in the early 2000s 
    when companies like Netflix and Hulu started offering online streaming services. 
    Initially, these were mainly libraries of movies and TV shows that users were able to stream on their computers. 
    Technological advancements and enhancements in internet infrastructure led to the rising popularity of these platforms and 
    ultimately caused a decline in the use of physical media, such as DVDs and Blu-rays.

    A key element behind the success of streaming platforms has been their focus on the creation of original content. 
    Platforms such as Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, and Disney+ invested heavily in the production of high-quality original series and 
    films resulting in a golden era of content creation, and diversifying storytelling opportunities.

    Source: https://www.dacast.com/blog/video-streaming-technology/

